# Your answers here.

1- It would take 255 seconds. The cashier starts with the first number (no computation necessary), adds the second number and now has a result (after 1 second). Repeat this process for the 254 remaining bags using the result of previous additions as the first number in each sum. So 255 additions in total, which takes 255 seconds.

2- The 8 cashiers can work in parallel. So each would worry about adding 256/8 = 32 bags. From the previous question, we know that one cashier would take 31 seconds to add 32 bags. At the end, we have 8 results left to add. 4 cashiers can each take two numbers to add, which would take 1 second and at the end of which there would be 4 numbers left to add. Two cashiers can each take two numbers of those numbers and add them, which would take 1 second and at the end of which there would be 2 numbers left to add. One cashier can add those two numbers in one second.
So the total amount of time required is 31+1+1+1 = 34 seconds.

3- After 1 second, 128 cashiers can each add up 2 numbers. It takes another 1 second, to bring that down to 64 numbers left to add up. Repeat this process halving the number of employees used and the number of bags left to add up, until there is only one number left. The whole process takes log base 2 of 256 = 8.
Therefore, it would take 8 seconds.

4- Similarly to last question, it would take:
ceiling of the log base 2 of N seconds 
to count N bags with an infinite number of employees. The ceiling is in case N is not a power of 2, in which case there would be one number left to add at the end. This is represented by the blue line on the plot. The lone cashier would take N-1 seconds, her time is represented by the red line on the plot.

5- For N bags, the first N/2 additions can be done immediately in 1 second. The following N/4 require 1 second for half of the N/2 employees to tell the other half the result of their addition. The N/4 employees who now each have two results will add them and take a second. This process keeps repeating. Therefore, the total time required is: 
2*(ceiling of log base 2 of N) - 1 seconds. 
We subtract 1 because the first additions do not require communication.
Therefore, for N = 256, the total time required will be:
2*8 - 1 = 15 seconds. 

6- If each cashier takes only 1 bag:
		-If we assume that no calculations can begin until all bags have been given out, then it takes 256 seconds to distribute all bags, followed by 1 second for half the cashiers to communicate their numbers to the other half. At this point, we have reduced the problem to part 5 again, so from here it takes 15 seconds. Therefore, a total of 256+1+15 = 272
		-If we assume that calculations can take place while bags are being handed out, then as we give bags to cashiers, the previous one can already be communicating among each other and adding up counts. To see how this works:
		After 1 second, 1 cashier has one bag
		After 2 seconds, 2 cashiers have one bag each
		After 3 seconds, the second cashier has communicated the number to the first, and a third cashier gets a bag, so we have a cashier with 2 numbers, and another with one number
		After 4 seconds, the first cashier adds his 2 numbers to get one number, and we get an additional cashier with a bag, so 3 cashiers with one bag each
		After 5 seconds, the second cashier communicates a number to the first, and another cashier gets a bag, so we have one cashier with 2 numbers, another with one, and another with one.
		After 6 seconds, the cashier with the 2 numbers adds them up to get one number, the other two communicate, and we get an additional cashier with a bag, so we have one cashier with a number, another with 2 numbers, and a third with one number. 
		At this point, we can understand that after x seconds, we will always have this configuration of one cashier with 2 numbers to add, and two other cashiers with one number each. From here, the cashier with the two numbers will add them up and at the same time the other two cashiers will communicate. Then, the cashier that now has 2 numbers will add them up. Then the last two cashiers will communicate. Then the last cashier will add up 2 numbers. So it takes 4 seconds from this configuration, and it takes 256 seconds to distribute all the bags and get to this configuration, so it takes a total of 260 seconds.

	If each cashier takes 2 bags:
		-If we assume no calculation until all bags have been handed out, this would take 128 seconds, and then there would be 15 seconds because this is the same problem as part 5. So total of 143 seconds. 
		-If we assume calculations can happen while bags are being distributed, then we can carry out a similar process as above, and we realize that after x seconds where x>= 6, we will always have the same configuration of two cashiers with one number each, and two cashiers with two numbers each. From here, the one-number cashiers can communicate while each of the other two cashiers add their own 2 numbers. Then these 2 cashiers communicate while the first cashier adds up his 2 numbers. Then a cashier adds up his 2 numbers. Then the two cashiers communicate. Then the last cashier adds up 2 numbers. So it takes 5 seconds from this configuration, and 128 seconds for all bags to be handed out. So a total of 128+5 = 133 seconds.

	The better strategy would be to give all 256 bags to one cashier. That cashier can then give half his bags to another cashier that doesn't have any bags. We can repeat this process of all cashiers who have bags giving half their bags to a cashier that does not have any bags, until all cashiers have 2 bags. It will take 8 seconds total (including my giving the first 256 bags to a cashier). At this point, we are back to the problem in part 5, which takes 15 seconds. So the best strategy would take 23 seconds.  

